---
title: "Week 11, 2014"
date: 2014-03-10
tags: [blogging]
RedirectFrom: blog/2014/03/10/week-11-2014/*
---

As detailed in this [previous post](/blog/2014/03/03/week-10-2014) I am going to blog about my goals for this week (as they are related to work and mildly relevant to you). What I start with today is also a review of the previous week. Oh, and by the way: The reviews will cover any other work related happening I decide to include (almost like a journal) besides the previous weeks goals. So, on to actual content ;-)

# The review

First, the goals:

1.  The tools blog post: I started it, but I am not yet sure on what level of detail I am going to write about this. I will very probably do just a short overview together with links and later go into more details (in additional blog posts).
2.  The prototype: I started it and in the course dove a little into [jQuery UI](https://jqueryui.com/) and the draggable, droppable and resizable widgets. Interesting stuff, but learning new things always makes me slow ;-)

Additionally, after 3 months on working on a rather interesting project that project got put on hold by our customer. I hope that is temporary because the project and the technologies used are quite interesting. I learned a lot in those months, so let's hope that the project continues.

# The goals

The goals for this week are rather similar to those last week:

1.  Finish the blog post.
2.  Finish the prototype.

Also for the future I will try and choose goals that are actually doable for me in the coming week.

That's all folks.
